---
title: Taxonomic data services
weight: 40
---

A taxon record stores the hierarchical classification of a taxon, its scientific names and synonyms, and other relevant data retrieved 
from the respective source system. All components and data types in the taxon model, as well as a comprehensive list of all 
taxon-related endpoints are documented in the {{%swagger-ui-link text="API endpoint reference"%}}{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}. A list of available fields is also available at

{{%nba-link%}}taxon/metadata/getFieldInfo{{%/nba-link%}}

## Base URL
The base URL for taxon-specific services is {{%nba-link-text%}}taxon{{%/nba-link-text%}}

## Data source systems
Currently, Naturalis provides data from (i) the [Catalogue of Life](http://www.catalogueoflife.org/) and (ii) 
the [Dutch Species Register](http://www.nederlandsesoorten.nl/). The field `sourceSystem.code` stores the source system 
of a taxon (COL and NSR, respectively).

## Available services

### Query
Querying for taxonomic data can be done using the {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/query/ endpoint"%}}#/taxon/queryHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}},
which accepts human-readable query strings and JSON encoded [QuerySpec](/advanced-queries/#queryspec) parameters.

#### Retreiving large quantities of data
Note that the query service is limited to a maximum of 10.000 rercords to retreive
with one query. For larger quantities, we offer a 
{{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/download"%}}#/taxon/downloadQueryHttpGet_2{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} 
service which returns the data as a gzipped JSON stream.

### Data access
Several access methods offer the convenient retrieval of taxa matching a certain identifier.
The services {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/find/"%}}#/taxon/find_4{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} and
{{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/findByIds/"%}}#/taxon/findByIds_4{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} retrieve taxa
according to their `id` fields (see [here](#taxids)).

### Aggregation
A count aggregation of query results (using query parameters or a QuerySpec object) can be done using the 
{{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/count/"%}}#/taxon/countHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} endpoint. 

For a specific field, {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/getDistinctValues/"%}}#/taxon/getDistinctValuesHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} 
returns all different values that there is in the data or that field. 

Nested aggreation over two fields can be done with 
{{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/getDistinctValuesPerGroup/"%}}#/taxon/getDistinctValuesPerGroupHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}

{{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/countDistinctValues/"%}}#/taxon/countDistinctValuesHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}
and {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/countDistinctValuesPerGroup/"%}}#/taxon/countDistinctValuesPerGroupHttpGet_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}
do the same as the above, but return only the counts instead of any data.

For more information and examples on aggregation queries, please also refer to the 
[advanced queries](/advanced-queries/#agg) section. 

### DwC-A download{#dl}
Download services offer bulk retrieval of taxonomic  data. Instead of 
JSON format, download services return zip files containing the data. The zip files are formatted according to the [Darwin Core 
archive standard for the exchange of biodiversity data](http://tools.gbif.org/dwca-assistant/gbif\_dwc-a\_asst\_en\_v1.1.pdf) (also see below). 
While *collection* download services offer pre-compiled datasets, dynamic download services produce Darwin Core archives for the results of any query 
for taxon or specimen data types.

#### Species collection DwC-A download
The endpoint for downloading a collection of taxa (species) is {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/dwcagetDataSet/"%}}#/taxon/dwcaGetDataSet2{{%/swagger-ui-link%}} 
with the name of a specific dataset. The names of predefined datasets can be 
retrieved with the endpoint {{%swagger-ui-link text="/taxon/dwca/getDataSetNames/"%}}#/taxon/dwcaGetDataSetNames2{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}. 

#### Dynamic DwC-A download
Dynamic download queries follow the same syntax as regular queries with the query endpoint. Suppose we have a simple query 
for taxa that are in the genus crocus: 

{{%nba-link%}}taxon/query/?defaultClassification.genus=Crocus{{%/nba-link%}}

Simply adding the path dwca in front of query will return the zipped archive:

{{%nba-link%}}taxon/dwca/query/?defaultClassification.genus=Crocus{{%/nba-link%}}

#### Darwin Core archives
Following files are contained in the zip archives generated by the download services:

* A *core data file* in csv format named Taxa.txt. 
  This file contains a tabular representation of the data with the first row defining the column names. 
* A *descriptor file* named meta.xml which maps the columns in the core data file to their respective [TWDG term](http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/). 
  Each column in the data is thus mapped to a specific concept termed by the TDWG consortium.
* A *metadata file* named eml.xml formatted according to the Electronic Metadata Language specification 
  [EML](https://knb.ecoinformatics.org/#external//emlparser/docs/index.html). Metadata in this file includes a description of 
  the dataset and details about the source institution.
* *Extension data*: The csv file Vernacular_names.txt gives information about common taxon names. 
  The mapping of columns to TDWG terms is provided in meta.xml.

### Metadata{#md}
Metadata services provide miscellaneous information about taxon records.
This includes detailed information about a taxon's {{%swagger-ui-link text="fields"%}}#/taxon/getFieldInfo_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}
and {{%swagger-ui-link text="paths"%}}#/taxon/getPaths_3{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}. A description of all
specimen metadata services can be found {{%swagger-ui-link text="here"%}}#/specimen{{%/swagger-ui-link%}}.

## Identifiers{#taxids}
The field `sourceSystemId` of a taxon is the identifier as it is in the source database. A unique identifier consisting of `{sourceSystemId}@{sourceSystem.code}` 
is stored in the field `id`. The `recordURI` is a direct link to the database entry in the source system.

## Classification
The classification of the taxon is according to the source system. In taxon records, there are two different types of classification: 
`systemClassification` and `defaultClassification`. The systemClassification is the verbatim classification as found in the taxonomic source system. 
During the import process, this classification is converted to satisfy the Biodiversity Information standards of 
the Taxonomic Database Working group (TDWG, see [here](http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/#taxonindex)). The TDWG-conform classification 
is termed `defaultClassification` here.

## Names, descriptions and synonyms
Each taxon has an `acceptedName` that represents this taxon in the source system. The `acceptedName` block stores additional 
taxonomic information, such as species and genus names and the authors that termed the taxon name. For example, we 
can retrieve all taxa that have been described by Linnaeus:

{{%nba-link%}}taxon/query/?acceptedName.author=Linnaeus{{%/nba-link%}}

Furthermore, taxon records can have a list of synonyms, descriptions, references and vernacular names (common names). 
Suppose we would like to search for passion flowers, without having any prior knowledge (e.g. without knowing that their genus is *Passiflora*):

```JSON
{
  "conditions": [
    {
      "field": "vernacularNames.name",
      "operator": "MATCHES",
      "value": "passion flower"
    }
  ],
  "size": 100
}
```

And there at least three species of genus *Passiflora* in the result set. Note that our datasets also include vernacular names in different 
languages; searching for the term “passiebloem” also yields a Passiflora taxon.
